README.md, before:

# CommScribe

**Unblock Your Scholarship** | v0.1.0

*Your ideas. Your voice. We just help you get unstuck.*

**Sister project to [CommDAAF](https://github.com/weiaiwayne/commDAAF)** — while CommDAAF handles data analysis, CommScribe handles literature review, theory building, and scholarly writing.

---

## ⚠️ Experimental Software

This framework is under active development at the [LampBotics AI Lab](https://lampbotics.com). Use with caution.

---

## The Problem: Getting Stuck

Every academic knows the feeling:

- **The blank page** — you know what you want to say, but can't start
- **Literature overwhelm** — drowning in papers, can't see the synthesis
- **The muddy middle** — draft exists, but it's not *clicking*
- **Voice fatigue** — after hours of writing, you don't sound like yourself anymore
- **Revision paralysis** — something's wrong, but you can't see it

These aren't signs you can't write. They're signs you're human.

---

## What CommScribe Does

**Helps you get unstuck — while keeping YOUR voice at the center.**

| When You're Stuck On... | CommScribe Helps By... |
|-------------------------|------------------------|
| Starting | Structured concept validation gets ideas flowing |
| Literature | Searches, organizes, synthesizes — you focus on meaning |
| Drafting | Learns YOUR voice, offers scaffolding in YOUR style |
| Revising | Independent audit spots what you can't see anymore |
| Consistency | Maintains your voice even when you're exhausted |

**The ideas are yours. The arguments are yours. The voice is yours.**

We just handle the friction that gets in the way.

---

## Your Voice at the Center

Most AI writing tools have a voice problem: they make everyone sound the same.

CommScribe flips this:

1. **Learns YOUR writing style** — from your own papers, your own words
2. **Generates in YOUR voice** — not "academic writing," YOUR academic writing
3. **Blocks generic patterns** — 286 AI-typical phrases that would dilute your voice
4. **Adapts with feedback** — tell it "that sounds like me" or "that doesn't," it learns

The result: drafts that sound like you wrote them on a good day — because they're built on YOUR patterns, not generic ones.

---

## Core Features

---

## Heritage

CommScribe shares DNA with:
- **[CommDAAF](https://github.com/weiaiwayne/commDAAF)** — Research integrity, tiered validation, nudge system
- **[DAAF](https://github.com/DAAF-Contribution-Community/daaf)** — Original methodological framework

| CommDAAF | CommScribe |
|----------|------------|
| Data analysis | Literature review |
| Methods validation | Draft validation |
| Network/text analysis | Synthesis/theorization |
| Results interpretation | Argument construction |
| Post-API data strategies | Voice learning |

---

### 🎤 Voice Learning

**Two modes available:**

#### Statistical Mode (Traditional)
- Sentence length patterns
- Vocabulary richness
- Hedging preferences ("suggests" vs "proves")
- Transition usage
- Citation integration style

#### Adaptive Mode (AI-Native) ⭐ NEW
- **Embedding-based** — captures the gestalt, not just word counts
- **Continuous learning** — improves with each "sounds like me" / "doesn't" feedback
- **Contrastive** — learns what your voice is NOT (vs AI, vs generic academic)
- **Calibrating threshold** — adapts to YOUR preferences over time

```python
# Adaptive voice improves with use
manager.feedback("wayne", generated_text, sounds_like_me=True)
```

Generated text matches YOUR voice, not generic academic-ese.

### 🚫 Anti-AI Pattern Awareness

286 patterns to avoid across 10 categories:
- Generic openers ("In recent years...")
- Importance phrases ("It is important to note...")
- Overused transitions ("Furthermore, Moreover, Additionally")
- Excessive hedging ("could potentially possibly")
- Filler phrases ("a wide range of", "plays a crucial role")
- Structural patterns ("Let's dive in", "Here are 5 tips")
- Inflated adjectives ("groundbreaking", "transformative")
- Emoji in academic text (🔑💡✨)
- Academic AI patterns ("This paper aims to fill a gap")
- Conclusion clichés ("In conclusion", "All in all")

### 📚 4-Stage Workflow

| Stage | Purpose | Key Feature |
|-------|---------|-------------|
| **1. Concept** | Define research question | Validation gate (300+ words, 3+ citations) |
| **2. Synthesis** | Literature search & integration | Zotero KG + OpenAlex + semantic search |
| **3. Drafting** | Write in your voice | Voice-constrained generation |
| **4. Audit** | Independent review | Different model critiques draft |

### 🎚️ Tiered Validation

| Tier | Time | Use Case |
|------|------|----------|
| 🟢 Notes | 30 min | Brainstorming, exploration |
| 🟡 Draft | 2-4 hrs | Advisor feedback, internal review |
| 🔴 Publication | 1-2 days | Journal submission |

### 🔄 Multi-Draft Support

Up to 5 iterations per project:
1. Submit draft → Agent review with comments
2. Revise → Submit v2 → New comments
3. Continue until satisfied
4. Version history preserved

---

## Deployment

### OpenClaw

```bash
cd ~/.openclaw/workspace/skills
git clone https://github.com/weiaiwayne/commscribe.git
```

### Claude Code

```bash
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/weiaiwayne/commscribe/main/CLAUDE_BUNDLE.md
mv CLAUDE_BUNDLE.md CLAUDE.md
```

Or clone for full functionality:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/weiaiwayne/commscribe.git .commscribe
```

### Google Antigravity

```bash
cd ~/.gemini/antigravity/skills
git clone https://github.com/weiaiwayne/commscribe.git
cd commscribe && cp -r antigravity/* .
```

---

## Quick Test

After installation, try:

```
Write a literature review paragraph on networked gatekeeping
```

If working correctly, the assistant should:
- Ask for your research question and theoretical framing
- Ask if you have a voice profile (or offer to create one)
- Ask about your validation tier (Notes/Draft/Publication)
- Generate text that avoids AI patterns

If it produces "In recent years, gatekeeping has become increasingly important..." — the setup isn't working.

---

## Project Structure

```
commscribe/
├── README.md
├── CLAUDE_BUNDLE.md           # One-file version
├── skill-templates/
│   ├── SKILL.md               # Main entry point
│   ├── stages/                # 4-stage workflow
│   │   ├── concept.md
│   │   ├── synthesis.md
│   │   ├── drafting.md
│   │   └── audit.md
│   ├── voice/                 # Voice learning
│   │   ├── extraction.md      # Statistical extraction
│   │   ├── prompting.md       # Voice-constrained prompts
│   │   ├── adaptive.md        # AI-native learning ⭐ NEW
│   │   └── profiles/
│   ├── anti-ai/               # Pattern avoidance
│   │   ├── patterns.md
│   │   └── validation.md
│   └── workflows/             # Tiered validation, nudges
│       ├── tiered-validation.md
│       ├── nudge-system.md
│       └── reflection-checkpoints.md
├── scripts/
│   ├── voice_learning.py      # Statistical voice extraction
│   ├── adaptive_voice.py      # AI-native voice learning ⭐ NEW
│   ├── anti_ai_patterns.py
│   └── enhanced_pipeline_guardrails.py
└── antigravity/               # Google Antigravity version
```

---

## Voice Profile Setup

### Option 1: From Writing Samples

Provide 5-10 samples of your writing (500+ words each):
- Published papers
- Dissertation chapters
- Working drafts

```
/commscribe setup voice from samples
```

### Option 2: From Zotero

If you have papers you've written in Zotero:

```
/commscribe setup voice from zotero --collection "My Papers"
```

### Profile Output

```json
{
  "avg_sentence_length": 22.5,
  "sentence_length_std": 8.3,
  "vocabulary_richness": 0.42,
  "passive_voice_ratio": 0.18,
  "hedge_frequency": 1.2,
  "preferred_hedges": ["suggests", "indicates", "appears"],
  "preferred_transitions": ["however", "yet", "while"],
  "first_person_usage": 1.5,
  "citation_density": 2.3
}
```

---

## Integration with CommDAAF

CommScribe and CommDAAF work together:

```
Research Workflow
       │
       ├── Literature Review (CommScribe)
       │   └── Theory → Literature → Writing
       │
       ├── Data Analysis (CommDAAF)  
       │   └── Data → Methods → Results
       │
       └── Paper
           └── Introduction + Lit Review (CommScribe)
           └── Methods + Results (CommDAAF)
           └── Discussion (Both)
```

---

## Acknowledgments

- **[CommDAAF](https://github.com/weiaiwayne/commDAAF)** — Sister project, shared architecture
- **[DAAF](https://github.com/DAAF-Contribution-Community/daaf)** — Original framework
- **Prof. Wayne Xu** — Methods development
- **LampBotics AI Lab** — Development environment

---

## Contributing

Contributions welcome:
- New anti-AI patterns
- Voice extraction improvements
- Additional workflow stages
- Discipline-specific adaptations

---

## License

GNU General Public License v3.0 (GPL-3.0), same as CommDAAF.

---

## Citation

```bibtex
@software{commscribe,
  title={CommScribe: Literature Review & Theorization Framework},
  author={Xu, Wayne and LampBotics AI Lab},
  year={2026},
  url={https://github.com/weiaiwayne/commscribe},
  license={GPL-3.0},
  note={Experimental. Sister project to CommDAAF.}
}
```

---

*Write like yourself — not like an AI pretending to be you.*

Commit message:

Add prominent 'What We Don't Do' sections
Clear boundaries upfront:
- Don't write your paper
- Don't generate arguments
- Don't replace reading
- Don't work without your input
- Don't make bad ideas good

Sets ethical expectations and differentiates from 'AI ghostwriter' tools

README.md, after:

# CommScribe

**Unblock Your Scholarship** | v0.1.0

*Your ideas. Your voice. We just help you get unstuck.*

**Sister project to [CommDAAF](https://github.com/weiaiwayne/commDAAF)** — while CommDAAF handles data analysis, CommScribe handles literature review, theory building, and scholarly writing.

---

## ⚠️ Experimental Software

This framework is under active development at the [LampBotics AI Lab](https://lampbotics.com). Use with caution.

---

## What CommScribe Does NOT Do

Let's be clear upfront:

| ❌ We Don't | Why Not |
|-------------|---------|
| **Write your paper for you** | That's your job. The ideas have to be yours. |
| **Generate arguments** | Arguments come from thinking, not prompts. |
| **Replace reading** | You still need to read the papers. We help organize, not understand for you. |
| **Guarantee "undetectable" output** | That framing is dishonest. We help you sound like YOU, not hide anything. |
| **Work without your input** | No samples = no voice profile = generic output. Garbage in, garbage out. |
| **Make bad ideas good** | If the concept is weak, better prose won't save it. |

If you want a tool that writes papers while you sleep, this isn't it.

---

## The Problem: Getting Stuck

Every academic knows the feeling:

- **The blank page** — you know what you want to say, but can't start
- **Literature overwhelm** — drowning in papers, can't see the synthesis
- **The muddy middle** — draft exists, but it's not *clicking*
- **Voice fatigue** — after hours of writing, you don't sound like yourself anymore
- **Revision paralysis** — something's wrong, but you can't see it

These aren't signs you can't write. They're signs you're human.

---

## What CommScribe Does

**Helps you get unstuck — while keeping YOUR voice at the center.**

| When You're Stuck On... | CommScribe Helps By... |
|-------------------------|------------------------|
| Starting | Structured concept validation gets ideas flowing |
| Literature | Searches, organizes, synthesizes — you focus on meaning |
| Drafting | Learns YOUR voice, offers scaffolding in YOUR style |
| Revising | Independent audit spots what you can't see anymore |
| Consistency | Maintains your voice even when you're exhausted |

**The ideas are yours. The arguments are yours. The voice is yours.**

We just handle the friction that gets in the way.

---

## Your Voice at the Center

Most AI writing tools have a voice problem: they make everyone sound the same.

CommScribe flips this:

1. **Learns YOUR writing style** — from your own papers, your own words
2. **Generates in YOUR voice** — not "academic writing," YOUR academic writing
3. **Blocks generic patterns** — 286 AI-typical phrases that would dilute your voice
4. **Adapts with feedback** — tell it "that sounds like me" or "that doesn't," it learns

The result: drafts that sound like you wrote them on a good day — because they're built on YOUR patterns, not generic ones.

---

## Core Features

---

## Heritage

CommScribe shares DNA with:
- **[CommDAAF](https://github.com/weiaiwayne/commDAAF)** — Research integrity, tiered validation, nudge system
- **[DAAF](https://github.com/DAAF-Contribution-Community/daaf)** — Original methodological framework

| CommDAAF | CommScribe |
|----------|------------|
| Data analysis | Literature review |
| Methods validation | Draft validation |
| Network/text analysis | Synthesis/theorization |
| Results interpretation | Argument construction |
| Post-API data strategies | Voice learning |

---

### 🎤 Voice Learning

**Two modes available:**

#### Statistical Mode (Traditional)
- Sentence length patterns
- Vocabulary richness
- Hedging preferences ("suggests" vs "proves")
- Transition usage
- Citation integration style

#### Adaptive Mode (AI-Native) ⭐ NEW
- **Embedding-based** — captures the gestalt, not just word counts
- **Continuous learning** — improves with each "sounds like me" / "doesn't" feedback
- **Contrastive** — learns what your voice is NOT (vs AI, vs generic academic)
- **Calibrating threshold** — adapts to YOUR preferences over time

```python
# Adaptive voice improves with use
manager.feedback("wayne", generated_text, sounds_like_me=True)
```

Generated text matches YOUR voice, not generic academic-ese.

### 🚫 Anti-AI Pattern Awareness

286 patterns to avoid across 10 categories:
- Generic openers ("In recent years...")
- Importance phrases ("It is important to note...")
- Overused transitions ("Furthermore, Moreover, Additionally")
- Excessive hedging ("could potentially possibly")
- Filler phrases ("a wide range of", "plays a crucial role")
- Structural patterns ("Let's dive in", "Here are 5 tips")
- Inflated adjectives ("groundbreaking", "transformative")
- Emoji in academic text (🔑💡✨)
- Academic AI patterns ("This paper aims to fill a gap")
- Conclusion clichés ("In conclusion", "All in all")

### 📚 4-Stage Workflow

| Stage | Purpose | Key Feature |
|-------|---------|-------------|
| **1. Concept** | Define research question | Validation gate (300+ words, 3+ citations) |
| **2. Synthesis** | Literature search & integration | Zotero KG + OpenAlex + semantic search |
| **3. Drafting** | Write in your voice | Voice-constrained generation |
| **4. Audit** | Independent review | Different model critiques draft |

### 🎚️ Tiered Validation

| Tier | Time | Use Case |
|------|------|----------|
| 🟢 Notes | 30 min | Brainstorming, exploration |
| 🟡 Draft | 2-4 hrs | Advisor feedback, internal review |
| 🔴 Publication | 1-2 days | Journal submission |

### 🔄 Multi-Draft Support

Up to 5 iterations per project:
1. Submit draft → Agent review with comments
2. Revise → Submit v2 → New comments
3. Continue until satisfied
4. Version history preserved

---

## Deployment

### OpenClaw

```bash
cd ~/.openclaw/workspace/skills
git clone https://github.com/weiaiwayne/commscribe.git
```

### Claude Code

```bash
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/weiaiwayne/commscribe/main/CLAUDE_BUNDLE.md
mv CLAUDE_BUNDLE.md CLAUDE.md
```

Or clone for full functionality:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/weiaiwayne/commscribe.git .commscribe
```

### Google Antigravity

```bash
cd ~/.gemini/antigravity/skills
git clone https://github.com/weiaiwayne/commscribe.git
cd commscribe && cp -r antigravity/* .
```

---

## Quick Test

After installation, try:

```
Write a literature review paragraph on networked gatekeeping
```

If working correctly, the assistant should:
- Ask for your research question and theoretical framing
- Ask if you have a voice profile (or offer to create one)
- Ask about your validation tier (Notes/Draft/Publication)
- Generate text that avoids AI patterns

If it produces "In recent years, gatekeeping has become increasingly important..." — the setup isn't working.

---

## Project Structure

```
commscribe/
├── README.md
├── CLAUDE_BUNDLE.md           # One-file version
├── skill-templates/
│   ├── SKILL.md               # Main entry point
│   ├── stages/                # 4-stage workflow
│   │   ├── concept.md
│   │   ├── synthesis.md
│   │   ├── drafting.md
│   │   └── audit.md
│   ├── voice/                 # Voice learning
│   │   ├── extraction.md      # Statistical extraction
│   │   ├── prompting.md       # Voice-constrained prompts
│   │   ├── adaptive.md        # AI-native learning ⭐ NEW
│   │   └── profiles/
│   ├── anti-ai/               # Pattern avoidance
│   │   ├── patterns.md
│   │   └── validation.md
│   └── workflows/             # Tiered validation, nudges
│       ├── tiered-validation.md
│       ├── nudge-system.md
│       └── reflection-checkpoints.md
├── scripts/
│   ├── voice_learning.py      # Statistical voice extraction
│   ├── adaptive_voice.py      # AI-native voice learning ⭐ NEW
│   ├── anti_ai_patterns.py
│   └── enhanced_pipeline_guardrails.py
└── antigravity/               # Google Antigravity version
```

---

## Voice Profile Setup

### Option 1: From Writing Samples

Provide 5-10 samples of your writing (500+ words each):
- Published papers
- Dissertation chapters
- Working drafts

```
/commscribe setup voice from samples
```

### Option 2: From Zotero

If you have papers you've written in Zotero:

```
/commscribe setup voice from zotero --collection "My Papers"
```

### Profile Output

```json
{
  "avg_sentence_length": 22.5,
  "sentence_length_std": 8.3,
  "vocabulary_richness": 0.42,
  "passive_voice_ratio": 0.18,
  "hedge_frequency": 1.2,
  "preferred_hedges": ["suggests", "indicates", "appears"],
  "preferred_transitions": ["however", "yet", "while"],
  "first_person_usage": 1.5,
  "citation_density": 2.3
}
```

---

## Integration with CommDAAF

CommScribe and CommDAAF work together:

```
Research Workflow
       │
       ├── Literature Review (CommScribe)
       │   └── Theory → Literature → Writing
       │
       ├── Data Analysis (CommDAAF)  
       │   └── Data → Methods → Results
       │
       └── Paper
           └── Introduction + Lit Review (CommScribe)
           └── Methods + Results (CommDAAF)
           └── Discussion (Both)
```

---

## Acknowledgments

- **[CommDAAF](https://github.com/weiaiwayne/commDAAF)** — Sister project, shared architecture
- **[DAAF](https://github.com/DAAF-Contribution-Community/daaf)** — Original framework
- **Prof. Wayne Xu** — Methods development
- **LampBotics AI Lab** — Development environment

---

## Contributing

Contributions welcome:
- New anti-AI patterns
- Voice extraction improvements
- Additional workflow stages
- Discipline-specific adaptations

---

## License

GNU General Public License v3.0 (GPL-3.0), same as CommDAAF.

---

## Citation

```bibtex
@software{commscribe,
  title={CommScribe: Literature Review & Theorization Framework},
  author={Xu, Wayne and LampBotics AI Lab},
  year={2026},
  url={https://github.com/weiaiwayne/commscribe},
  license={GPL-3.0},
  note={Experimental. Sister project to CommDAAF.}
}
```

---

*Write like yourself — not like an AI pretending to be you.*
